# 4.2.6 Practice: Exploring Debate: Opening Statements

## Requirements

* Write speeches for both the affirmative and negative sides of a topic of a
  topic of your choice.
* Express the affirmative (or "for") side of the debate in one speech and the
  negative (or "against") side in the other speech.
* Each speech should be two paragraphs long.
* Your assignment should be written in 12-point font with standard margins.

## Tips

* Use the Toulmin model of debate when writing both speeches.

## Brainstorm Organizer

### Step 1

**What is your topic? Write down a few ideas then choose one. Remember: For
this assignment, you need to write both the "for" and "against" sides of the
topic, so choose a topic that you feel you know well enough.**

* NSA surveillance
* Net neutrality
* **Whistleblowers**

### Step 2

**Brainstorm some ideas for the positive side of the topic and write them down
here. When you're finished, pick your three best ideas. These will be your
"contentions."**

* Whisteblowers keep our government honest
* Whisteblowers make enforcement democratic
* Calling whistleblowers traitors undermines the fundamentals of democracy

### Step 3

**Think of some evidence that will support your contentions. Evidence can be
facts, ideas, explanations, or examples.**

* People:
  * Edward Snowden - NSA
  * Thomas Drake - NSA
  * Chelsea Manning - Military
  * W. Mark Felt - Nixon
  * Marry Markopolos - Madoff
  * Daniel Ellsberg - Vietnam, secret bombings in Cambodia
* NSA realizations are a really great example of the effects modern-day
  whistleblowing.

### Step 4

**Now brainstorm some ideas for the negative side of the topic and write them
down here. When you're finished, pick your three best ideas. These will be your
"contentions."**

* We can trust our governments
* Whistleblowers violate national security
* But terrorists!

### Step 5

**Provide some evidence that will support your contentions. Evidence can be
facts, ideas, explanations, or examples.**

## Thought Organizer

### Affirmative Introduction

**Write down an introductory paragraph for the affirmative side here. Be sure
to include a thesis statement.**

A whistleblower is someone who exposes misconduct occurring within an
organization or governmental entity. Recently the role of whistleblowers has
been brought into question following the National Security Agency (NSA) privacy
scandal and military misconduct. _Despite going against government interests,
whistleblowers are a vital part of the checks and balances that maintain a
functional democratic society._

### Proof

**In complete sentences, write three contentions that directly support your
thesis statement above. Support each contention with two pieces of evidence.**

Whistleblowers keep our government honest. Edward Snowden, a former contractor
for the NSA, recently exposed that the NSA runs a global surveillance
program that spies on both foreigners and American citizens in violation of the
fourth amendment. If Snowden hadn't reached out to journalists, the illegal
surveillance program would have remained hidden from the public. Chelsea
Manning, another whistleblower, released classified military information to
WikiLeaks, including video footage of the July 12, 2007 Baghdad airstrike and
the 2009 Granai airstrike in Afghanistan. If Manning never contacted WikiLeaks,
the injustices done by our military would remain hidden to the American public.

Democracy relies on a constant feedback loop between a government and its
people. Without a feedback loop, a government turns to corruption and,
eventually, authoritarianism. By hiding the NSA surveillance programs and
injustices done by our military from the public, our government is deliberately
interrupting the feedback loop. The government in 1984 is a wonderful example
of what happens when a government lacks a feedback loop. Whistleblowers keep
our government in check by giving the public the truth.

If a democracy is rule by the people, then the people deserve the right to know
the truth. Whistleblowers give the people the unbiased truth. Without knowing
what our tax dollars are going to, how can we say we live in a democratic
nation?

### Conclusion

**Write a concluding paragraph for the affirmative side here. Restate your
opinion and summarize your main points.**

Whistleblowers are clearly a vital part of democracy: they keep our government
honest, help sustain the feedback loop that powers democracy, and encourage the
fundamentals of democracy - rule by the people. Without whistleblowers, we are
limited to blindly trusting organizations and governments with interests that
don't always necessarily align with our own.

### Negative Introduction

**Now write an introductory paragraph for the negative side in this box. Be
sure to include a thesis statement.**

We always have and always will trust the governments and corporations that rule
our world. _Whistleblowers are nuisances that only want attention for
themselves. Governments and corporations already know what they are doing and
don't need the public to tell them what to do._

### Proof

**In complete sentences, write three contentions that directly support the
thesis statement above. Support each contention with two pieces of evidence.**

To question the honesty of our government is unpatriotic. A true patriot
blindly trusts their government. Snowden is a traitor for revealing the NSA's
surveillance program because he is trying to help the terrorists. The NSA is
just trying to protect us from the terrorists. I don't care if they collect my
info, so nobody else should. I have nothing to hide! Whistleblowers violate
national security by giving information to terrorists. Now that the terrorists
know that they are being monitored, they're going to hide their communications.
Manning's release of classified information gave terrorists vital information
to advance attacks on freedom. The goal of terrorists is to undermine freedom.
Government whistleblowers really just want to help terrorists destroy freedom.
For example, Thomas Drake, like Snowden, revealed some secret programs of the
NSA. He wanted to help the terrorists by letting them know what the NSA is
doing.

### Conclusion

**Finally, write a concluding paragraph for the negative side here. Be sure to
restate your opinion and summarize your main points.**

Whistleblowers try to undermine freedom. Our governments know what is best for
us. Whistleblowers provide valuable information to terrorists, violating
national security. In the end, whistleblowers are just trying to help the
terrorists.

## All Together

### Affirmative

A whistleblower is someone who exposes misconduct occurring within an
organization or governmental entity. Recently the role of whistleblowers has
been brought into question following the National Security Agency (NSA) privacy
scandal and military misconduct. _Despite going against government interests,
whistleblowers are a vital part of the checks and balances that maintain a
functional democratic society._

Whistleblowers keep our government honest. Edward Snowden, a former contractor
for the NSA, recently exposed that the NSA runs a global surveillance
program that spies on both foreigners and American citizens in violation of the
fourth amendment. If Snowden hadn't reached out to journalists, the illegal
surveillance program would have remained hidden from the public. Chelsea
Manning, another whistleblower, released classified military information to
WikiLeaks, including video footage of the July 12, 2007 Baghdad airstrike and
the 2009 Granai airstrike in Afghanistan. If Manning never contacted WikiLeaks,
the injustices done by our military would remain hidden to the American public.

Democracy relies on a constant feedback loop between a government and its
people. Without a feedback loop, a government turns to corruption and,
eventually, authoritarianism. By hiding the NSA surveillance programs and
injustices done by our military from the public, our government is deliberately
interrupting the feedback loop. The government in 1984 is a wonderful example
of what happens when a government lacks a feedback loop. Whistleblowers keep
our government in check by giving the public the truth.

If a democracy is rule by the people, then the people deserve the right to know
the truth. Whistleblowers give the people the unbiased truth. Without knowing
what our tax dollars are going to, how can we say we live in a democratic
nation?

Whistleblowers are clearly a vital part of democracy: they keep our government
honest, help sustain the feedback loop that powers democracy, and encourage the
fundamentals of democracy - rule by the people. Without whistleblowers, we are
limited to blindly trusting organizations and governments with interests that
don't always necessarily align with our own.

### Negative

We always have and always will trust the governments and corporations that rule
our world. _Whistleblowers are nuisances that only want attention for
themselves. Governments and corporations already know what they are doing and
don't need the public to tell them what to do._

To question the honesty of our government is unpatriotic. A true patriot
blindly trusts their government. Snowden is a traitor for revealing the NSA's
surveillance program because he is trying to help the terrorists. The NSA is
just trying to protect us from the terrorists. I don't care if they collect my
info, so nobody else should. I have nothing to hide! Whistleblowers violate
national security by giving information to terrorists. Now that the terrorists
know that they are being monitored, they're going to hide their communications.
Manning's release of classified information gave terrorists vital information
to advance attacks on freedom. The goal of terrorists is to undermine freedom.
Government whistleblowers really just want to help terrorists destroy freedom.
For example, Thomas Drake, like Snowden, revealed some secret programs of the
NSA. He wanted to help the terrorists by letting them know what the NSA is
doing.

Whistleblowers try to undermine freedom. Our governments know what is best for
us. Whistleblowers provide valuable information to terrorists, violating
national security. In the end, whistleblowers are just trying to help the
terrorists.
