# 4.3.1 Journal: Analyze the Reading

## Read and Paraphrase

### Read

**Read the text below.**


From _Brown v. Board of Education:_

Today, education is perhaps the most important function of state and local
governments. Compulsory school attendance laws and the great expenditures for
education both demonstrate our recognition of the importance of education to
our democratic society. It is required in the performance of our most basic
public responsibilities, even service in the armed forces. It is the very
foundation of good citizenship.

Today it is a principal instrument in awakening the child to cultural values,
in preparing him for later professional training, and in helping him to adjust
normally to his environment. In these days, it is doubtful that any child may
reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an
education.

### Paraphrase

**Now paraphrase what you just read.**

Education is vital to a functioning democratic society. Knowing this, we've
implemented mandatory attendance laws and gone great lengths to demonstrate
our recognition of the importance of education. Education is the foundation of
good citizenship.

A child denied education is denied the opportunity to succeed in life.

## Mark the Text

Now is a chance for you to mark text to show how a reading sample uses the
concepts you learned about in this unit. You learned about debate in this unit.
Italicize the parts of the text above that are meant to appeal to the
listener's logic or emotions.

### The Text

Today, education is perhaps the most important function of state and local
governments. _Compulsory school attendance laws and the great expenditures for
education both demonstrate our recognition of the importance of education to
our democratic society. It is required in the performance of our most basic
public responsibilities, even service in the armed forces._ It is the very
foundation of good citizenship.

Today it is a principal instrument in _awakening the child to cultural values,
in preparing him for later professional training, and in helping him to adjust
normally to his environment._ In these days, _it is doubtful that any child may
reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an
education._

## Write the Response

### Prompt

Journal question: What logic or emotional imagery does the speaker use to
persuade the listener?

Using your paraphrase and notes of the text, write a 4 to 10 sentence journal
entry. Use the complete topic sentence below or write your own. Then provide
two supporting examples and a closing sentence to back up the topic sentence.

### Response

Using logic and emotional imagery, the speaker connects with the audience on a
deep level, making their points memorable. By referencing the armed forces, the
speaker takes advantage of the social norm of supporting the armed forces,
creating an emotional connection with the audience. Additionally, through
taking advantage of the innate human care for children, the speaker connects
with the audience emotionally. Walking through the logic behind their thought
process, the speaker establishes a firm argument for the importance of
education. Using logos and pathos, the speaker resonates their argument to the
audience.
