# 5.3.1 Journal: Analyze the Reading

## Read and Paraphrase

### Read

_from "La Puerta" by José Antonio Burciaga:_

Thunder clapped. Faustina quit ironing and unplugged the iron. Sinesio sounded
off about no one respecting his papers and how no one could find anything in
that house. ¿Dónde está el boleto de lotería? — Where is the lottery ticket?

They both stopped to think. The rain splashed into a downpour against the door.
Faustina looked at the door to see if she had fixed the hole in the glass.

### Paraphrase

There's a thunderstorm happening. Sinesio is annoyed that people don't respect
his papers and that he can never find anything in the house. He asks where the
lottery ticket is.

After stopping to think, Faustina looks at the door to see if she had fixed
the hole in the class. It turns out she fixed it with the lottery ticket.

## Mark the Text

**Now is a chance for you to mark the text to show how a reading sample uses
the concepts you learned about in this unit.**

_from "La Puerta" by José Antonio Burciaga:_

_Thunder clapped. Faustina quit ironing and unplugged the iron. Sinesio sounded
off about no one respecting his papers and how no one could find anything in
that house._ ¿Dónde está el boleto de lotería? — Where is the lottery ticket?

_They both stopped to think. The rain splashed into a downpour against the door.
Faustina looked at the door to see if she had fixed the hole in the glass._

## Write the Response

**Journal Question: In what way does the setting contribute to the depiction of
the relationship between Faustina and Sinesio?**

Sinesio and Faustina live in a poverty-stricken "ramshackle colonia." The
thunderstorm, causing leaks and making noise, emphasizes the lack of luxury in
their lives. Their unpleasant living conditions lead to reader to understand
the strain in their relationship. However, in times of crisis, such as in the
above passage, Sinesio and Faustina work together, exposing an underlying trust
and love in their relationship. This underlying trust and love is what drives
Sinesio to want to work in America to provide for his family.
