# 7.1.3 Final Exam: World History Semester 2

## Short-Answer Questions

Write a two- to three-sentence response to each of the following items.
Remember to use examples and be specific. (6 points each)

1. Identify two of the most successful empires of modern times. Explain their
   ability to expand and control other peoples.

Both British Empire and the Russian Empire were successful empires of modern
times. Both empires had massive militaries and rarely hesitated to expand into
new territories. They were both ruthless in their control of other peoples
under their control.

2. Where did the idea of socialism come from?

Socialism has its roots in the French Revolution and the changes introduced by
the Industrial Revolution. Early Socialist thinkers identified key problems
with the industrial society they lived in and started the search for a
solution. They concluded that the only way to solve these social problems was
to change public opinion, which led to the conception of model societies. The
idea was that model societies could provide a moral example for the rest of
society.

3. What helped cause the Industrial Revolution?

The current state of technology and science in addition to the scientific
mindset at the time helped cause the Industrial Revolution. Without all three 
of these, the Industrial Revolution would not have been possible.

4. What led Europeans to colonize other parts of the world?

The motives for colonization varied. Common motives included the search for raw
materials and captive markets and control of access to spices or other rate
materials.

5. What benefits did Britain bring to India as a colonial power?

A public school system was established, a relatively fair and efficient
government was set up, and there were numerous advances in transportation and
communication. Additionally, British rule brought stability to regions
previously divided by civil war.

6. Briefly describe the American empire that resulted by the end of the 1800’s?

By the end of the 1800s America had joined in the global trend of colonizing
territories overseas, it became known for asserting its power in the western
hemisphere, and it became open to the idea of imperialism. Additionally,
America aquired Hawaii as a territory in 1898.

7. Who built the Panama Canal and why did they do it?

The Panama Canal was built by the United States under the guidance of Theodore
Roosevelt. It was built to allow ships to avoid having to sail around the tip
of South America to make it from the Atlantic to the Pacific Oceans.

8. What were two causes of the world wars in the 20th century?

What finally set the ball rolling with World War 1 was the assassination of
Franz Ferdinand. Hitler's campaigns with the Nazi party was one of the causes
of World War 2.

## Analysis/Commentary (6 points each)

Read each document and write ONE paragraph of commentary for each. Briefly tell
what it says and also connect the document to what we have learned in semester
two. Make specific observations from the text that give basic historical
information in regards dates and make connections with the era. Feel free to
ask historical questions within your commentary.

### Document One

**Title:** The American Declaration of Independence.

**Excerpt:**

When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for one people to
dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another and to
assume among the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of
Nature’s God entitle them

**Response:**

The provided excerpt from the American Declaration of Independence explains 
that sometimes a group of people need to separate the political ties that they
have with another group of people and take the power that is rightfully theirs.
As history has shown, this is what creates revolutions. Take the American or
French Revolution, for example. In both revolutions the government didn't
fulfill the needs of the people, making it necessary for the people to remove
the government and instate their own. If these revolutions didn't happen in
1765 and 1789, respectively, who knows where we'd be today?

### Document Two

**Title:** Adolf Hitler

**Excerpt:**

On this historic occasion I must once again thank all those millions of unknown
Germans, from every class and caste, profession and trade and from all the
farmsteads, who have given their hearts, their lives and their sacrifices, for
the new Reich. And all of us, gentlemen and members of the Reichstag, hereby
join together in tendering our thanks to the women of Germany, to the millions
of those German mothers who have given their children to the Third Reich.
During these four years every mother who has presented a child to the nation
has contributed by her pain and her joy to the happiness of the whole people.

— Adolf Hitler, "On National Socialism and Word Relations", 30 January 1937

**Response:**

In this excerpt Hitler emphasizes the role of the people in the Third Reich.
Without the people on his side, it would be impossible for Hitler to succeed.
Throughout the year, we learned about the importance of people in movements. As
Hitler shows, without the people on your side, change is very difficult to
create and sustain. Take the Soviet Union, for example. When the people no
longer 

## Essay

### Prompt

What was the Cold War and when did it take place?

### Response
