# 1.1.8 Discuss: Think It Through, Talk It Out

## Agree or Disagree?

Read the statement below and decide whether you agree or disagree with it.
Be prepared to support your opinion with details from the reading. Here's
your discussion prompt:

> The Founders who created the Bill of Rights organized the amendments in
> order of importance.

What do you think? Write a paragraph supporting your opinion and then write
a reply paragraph. If you're working with others, your reply paragraph
should respond to the ideas of another student. If you're working alone,
your reply paragraph should support the opposite point of view from your
own.

## Response

I do not believe that the Founding Fathers organized the Bill of Rights by
importance. Doing so would make fundamental American ideals "less worthy" than
others, potentially undermining the very meaning of freedom in our society. For
example, the tenth amendment states, "The powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to
the States respectively, or to the people." Powers are binary: either true or
false. Making a power more-true or less-true than others raises the question of
our government's role in our everyday lives. If the fourth amendment is
less-true than the others, does that make the NSA's activity legal?

In an ideal world powers would be binary. Unfortunately, we do not live in an
ideal world. The founders clearly has some sort of intention behind the order
of the amendments. The first potential intention that comes to mind is
importance. I'd argue that the first powers that came to mind were also the
first to be committed to paper.
