# 2.2.8 Discuss: Think It Through, Talk It Out

## Assignment

Read the statement below and then decide whether you agree or disagree with it.
Be prepared to support your opinion with details from the video and reading.
Here's your discussion prompt:

> The National Geographic presentation shows that video is superior to other
> media in depicting reality.

What do you think? Write a paragraph supporting your opinion and then write a
reply paragraph. If you're working with others, your reply paragraph should
respond to the ideas of another student. If you're working alone, your reply
paragraph should support the opposite point of view from your own.

## Response

I disagree with the provided discussion prompt. Instead of National Geographic
showing that video is superior to other media in depicting reality, I believe
they effectively show that video provides a different perspective. With
different media comes different contexts, biases, and focuses. For example, in
the National Geographic broadcast coverage of Hurricane Katrina, there is extra
emphasis on tragic images, such as a floating corpse and destroyed homes. This
emphasis plays a major role in the underlying message and perspective conveyed
to the viewer. It does not necessarily make the medium superior.

I agree with your assertion that different media provides different
perspective. However, I believe that different perspective can depict reality
in a much more effective manner. For example, very visual information appeals
directly to the viewer's emotions. Since reality is formed by perspective and
emotion, visual information is more effective at depecting reality.
