# 2.3.8 Discuss: Think It Through, Talk It Out

## Assignment

Read the statement below, and then decide whether you agree or disagree with
it. Be prepared to support your opinion with details from the story. Here's
your discussion prompt:

> The moral of Boyle's story is that the strong should not help the weak.

What do you think? Write a paragraph supporting your opinion and then write a
reply paragraph. If you're working with others, your reply paragraph should
respond to the ideas of another student. If you're working alone, your reply
paragraph should support the opposite point of view from your own.

## Response

I disagree with the provided discussion prompt. Instead of saying that the
strong should help the weak, I believe Boyle's story intends to convey that
there are unforeseen consequences to seemingly simple problems. About halfway
through the story, Boyle writes, "We did what we could to accommodate them and
reach our objective in the shortest period of time and by the most direct and
effective means. We went to the air. Obviously. And no one could have foreseen
the consequences, no one, not even if we'd gone out and generated a hundred
environmental-impact statements — it was just one of those things, a freak
occurrence, and there's no defense against that." Nowhere in his story does he
write that helping the weak is inherently bad. Instead, he writes that they
did not foresee the consequences of their help.

I disagree with your assertion. Yes, Boyle writes that there were unforeseen
consequences, but I believe that this implies that the strong should not help
the weak. How I interpret it, Boyle means that helping the weak will always
result in unforeseen consequences, thus it's not worth helping them at all.
