# 3.2.1 Journal: Record Your Thoughts

## Assignment

Pick a topic that you think you could easily explain to your friends. Now
imagine that you have to give a speech about the same topic, but in front of
30 strangers. Write about what would be different, and more challenging,
about giving a speech versus just talking about the topic with your friends.

## Response

To me, the biggest difference between chatting with friends and speaking in
front of an audience is the amount of criticism involved. When discussing with
friends, I generally don't need to worry as much about establishing ethos than
if I was speaking to an audience. I also do much more preparation when speaking
to an audience than when speaking with friends. Establishing ethos and
maintaining a coherent argument while staying on topic and speaking to an
audience is far more challenging than unorganized banter with friends. For
example, I enjoy discussing the topic of education with friends. I met with one
of my friends from NYU last week at a coffee shop and we spent a few hours
chatting about our experiences with education. While chatting, I didn't need to
worry too much about maintaining a coherent and succinct argument. Instead, we
focused entirely on learning from each focused entirely on learning from each
other. In contrast to this, I'm speaking at a local TED event this upcoming
weekend about the role of passion in education. I've spent countless hours
preparing my talk. I need to worry much more about establishing ethos and
staying on point.
