# Outline

Claim: The drinking age should be lowered to 18 in the United States

Supporting reasons:

* 8 is the age of adulthood and adults should have the right to make their own
* decisions about alcohol consumption.
  * Can vote, smoke cigarettes, serve on juries, get married, be prosecuted as
    adults, and join the military.
    * As of January 10th, 2014, 4,410 United States Servicemembers have died in
      Iraq. A fifth of them were underage.
* The drinking age is ineffective because the majority of teens consume alcohol
  anyways.
  * In an anonymous survey in 2006, 72.2% of high school seniors reported
    drinking alcohol sometime in their lives.
  * Underage drinking accounts for 17.5% of consumer spending for alcohol in
    the United States ($22.5 billion).
* High non-compliance with MLDA 21 promotes general disrespect and
  non-compliance with other areas of US law.
  * It's better to have fewer fake IDs in circulation and more respect of the
    law for the sake of national security.

Research questions:

* What percentage of teens drink?
* The human brain continues developing into the mid 20s. Consumption of alcohol
  can interfere with the development of the frontal lobes. What health
  concerns should be taken into account when saying that the drinking age
  should be lowered?

# Works Cited

Califano, Joseph, Jr. "The Commercial Value of Underage and Pathological Drinking to the Alcohol Industry." _National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse_. N.p., May 2006. Web. 5 Apr. 2014.

"Consumer Information." _Dangers of Teen Drinking_. US Federal Trade Commission (FTC), n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2014.

Covey, Charlie. "DRINKING AGE REQUIRES NECESSARY AND PROPER ACTION." _Youth Facts_. N.p., 11 Nov. 2007. Web. 5 Apr. 2014.

Hanson, David J., PhD. "Military Deaths in Iraq: One-Fifth Were Underage for Drinking." _Alcohol Problems and Solutions_. State University of New York at Potsdam, n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2014.

Kleiman, Mark. "Of Amethysts and Fake ID’s." _The Reality-Based Community_. The Reality-Based Community, 20 Aug. 2008. Web. 05 Apr. 2014.
