# 4.1.8 Discuss: Think It Through, Talk It Out

Read the statement below and then decide whether you agree or disagree with it.
Be prepared to support your opinion with details from the essay. Here's your
discussion prompt:

> Hunter's inclusion of personal information ("I am a true political
> independent") makes his argument weaker.

What do you think? Write a paragraph supporting your opinion and then write a
reply paragraph. If you're working with others, your reply paragraph should
respond to the ideas of another student. If you're working alone, your reply
paragraph should support the opposite point of view from your own.

## Response

I disagree with the provided discussion prompt. One of Hunter's primary
reasons behind his push for compulsory voting is to elect less partisan
officials. Due to political campaigns focusing on high motivated voters, the
most partisan, they focus on party extremes, sometimes in place of more
pressing issues. By establishing his political stance as independent, he is
explicitly separating himself from the partisan voters and establishing his
point-of-view as level-headed and rational.

I disagree with your disagreement. By including his political stance, Hunter
changes the topic of his argument from the improvement of the country's voting
system to making the voting system fit within his political ideals. Making the
article about his ideals rather than a broad topic both lessens his credibility
and the overall impact of his argument as a whole.
