# 4.2.1 Journal: Record Your Thoughts

## Journal Question

Picture yourself making a lifestyle change, such as becoming a vegetarian,
joining the military, or moving to another country. What arguments might your
friends or family make about your sudden lifestyle change, and how might you
reply to them?

## Assignment

As with everything, lifestyle changes come with both pros and cons, often
unique to the individual. Outside friends and family will likely see different
pros and cons than you. A common argument against change is that things were
fine before. Another common argument is that there may be unknown ramifications
caused by the change. However, I believe that the individual must follow their
own path in life, and major lifestyle changes are necessary for this. When I
started going to programming competitions, my parents were wary, to say the
least. They didn't like the idea of me going to events on my own with others
who were often ten or twenty years my senior. My parents were worried for my
safety, both physically and mentally. In response, I talked about how much of a
growing experience the events would be and the career options that they would
provide.  After going to a game creation competition, I got a job offer from a
game studio, only reinforcing how much of a growing experience the events are.
It's easy to be afraid of change, especially when it has to do with someone you
care about. As long as you understand this and can empathize with your friends
and family, it becomes easier to get them on your side.
