# 2.2.6 Practice: Theme: Topic Paragraph

### Requirements

* Include a hook, a topic sentence, a body sentence, and a clincher sentence.
* Use examples from the text to back up your topic sentence.
* Your response should be at least 5 lines long with 1-inch margins and a
  12-point font.

### Tips

* All of your sentences should support your topic sentence.
* Pay attention to the following:
  * **What** you're doing -- writing a focused topic paragraph
  * **How** you're doing it -- by using the theme of change
  * **What you'll be using** to do it -- your new knowledge of setting,
    characters, and plot.

## Organizer

### Step 1

**Reread the story, paying close attention to the theme of change. Use this
space to jot down notes and ideas as your read.**

* There's an interesting clash between modern religion/beliefs, specifically
  Christianity, and ancient tradition.
* The perserverence of ancient tradition is a powerful example of continuity.
* The push for change by the priest is a powerful example of change.

### Step 2

**Write your topic here. For this assignment, your topic will be about how the
author shows the theme of change.**

The author shows the theme of change by creating a direct conflict between
ancient tradition and modern beliefs.

### Step 3

**Brainstorm ideas for the topic and write a brief outline here.**

* Clash between priest and ancient traditions.
* Priest's unwillingness to assist in the burial because proper procedure
  wasn't followed.

## Writing

### Hook

**Write your hook here. Use an interesting fact, image, example, or question to
get your reader's attention.**

Ancient American Indian traditions in New Mexico were founded approximately
1,500 years ago when ancestrian Indians, living as hunter gatherers throughout
the Southwest, joined together to establish permanent settlements.

### Topic Sentence

**Write the topic sentence here. Your topic sentence should summarize how the
characters, plot, or setting show the theme of continuity and change.**

Louise's want for holy water for Teofilo shows her need for change, and, to
some extent, progress. Despite polluting ancient tradition, without some
tangible form of progress, she, and society as a whole, will be dissatisfied
with the current state of affairs.

### Supporting Ideas

**How is the theme of change shown in the story? Through the setting? The
characters? How about the plot? Write down some supporting ideas in this
space.**

* Set in New Mexico, where modern beliefs haven't completely eradicated ancient
  American Indian tradition.
* Father Paul initially not wanting to use holy water when the Last Rites
  haven't been given shows his want for the continuity of ritual Christianity,
  but disregards the need for continuity of ancient tradition.
* Louise's want for holy water for Teofilo shows her innate want for change
  and, to some extent, how modern society has "polluted" her.

### Clincher

**Write your clincher sentence here. Remember, a clincher sentence restates
your topic sentence using different words. Your clincher should restate how the
themes of continuity and change are presented in the story.**

The innate need for change in modern society is polluting of ancient tradition,
but is required for progress to be made.

### Entire Paragraph

**Write the entire paragraph, consisting of your hook, topic sentence,
supporting ideas, and clincher, here.**

Ancient American Indian traditions in New Mexico were founded approximately
1,500 years ago when ancestrian Indians, living as hunter gatherers throughout
the Southwest, joined together to establish permanent settlements.  Louise's
want for holy water for Teofilo shows her need for change, and, to some extent,
her need for progress. Despite polluting ancient tradition, without some
tangible form of progress, she, and society as a whole, will be dissatisfied
with the current state of affairs. Modern beliefs haven't completely eradicated
ancient tradition in New Mexico. Louise's want for Christian procedures during
a traditional burial shows her willingness to "pollute" ancient tradition with
modern beliefs, and, therefore, her innate need for progress. Although Father
Paul initially refuses to use holy water for Teofilo because it goes against
Christian tradition, he eventually succumbs to Leon and Louise's request to
allow some form of progress to be made. The innate need for change in modern
society is polluting of ancient tradition, but is required for progress.
