# 2.3.1 Journal: Analyze the Reading

**This is your journal activity. Complete the prewriting steps below before
moving on to the journal response.**

## Read and Paraphrase

**Read the text below.**

From "The Man to Send Rainclouds" by Leslie Marmon Silko:

The big cottonwood tree stood apart from a small grove of winter bare
cottonwoods which grew in the wide, sandy arroyo. . . . He squinted up at the
sun and unzipped his jacket — it sure was hot for this time of year. But high
and northwest the blue mountains were still in snow.

**Now paraphrase what your just read.**

The large tree stood apart from the smaller trees that grew in steep-sided
gully. Squinting up at the sun, he unzipped his jacket. It was suprisingly hot
for the current time of year, but the nearby mountains were still covered in
snow.

## Mark the Text

**Now is a chance for you to mark text to show how a reading sample uses the
concepts you learned about in this unit. You learned a bit about setting in
this unit. Underline the parts of the text below that describe the setting.**

From "The Man to Send Rainclouds" by Leslie Marmon Silko:

The *big cottonwood tree stood apart from a small grove of winter bare
cottonwoods which grew in the wide, sandy arroyo*. . . . He *squinted up at
the sun* and unzipped his jacket — *it sure was hot for this time of year*.
But *high and northwest the blue mountains were still in snow*.

## Write the Response

**Journal question: In this passage, what descriptions about the setting tell
you that the story takes place during an unusual weather period?**

"The big cottonwood tree stood apart from a small grove of winter bare
cottonwoods which grew in the wide, sandy arroyo." Arroyos are steep-sided
gullies cut by running water that are located in arid or semiarid regions. It's
interesting that there'd be snow so close to somewhere that's arid. "...it sure
was hot for this time of the year. But high and northwest the blue mountains
were still in snow." It is also interesting that it's warm enough in the winter
to make a jacket not necessary, yet snow still sits on nearby mountains.
