# 3.1.4 Study: Arthur Miller: His Life and Work

## General Knowledge

* Arthur Miller is a well-known _playwright_.
* Three of the plays he is best known for are _Death of a Salesman_, _All My
  Sons_, and _The Crucible_.

## Joseph McCarthy and the Salem Witch Trials

* There was a perceived _threat_ from certain "outside" members of society.
* As society asked _questions_ about these people, fear levels rose.
* There was a feverish _hunt_ to find the criminals (witches or Communists).
* People were put on _trial_ because they were accused of the crime of being
  different from society.
* In both cases, the _outcome_ was similar. Many people were found guilty and
  were either executed (during the witch trials) or put in jail (during the
  McCarthy era).

## Special Notes about Drama

* Novels and plays often start in the _middle_ of the story. The information
  that comes before that is called the _antecedent action_.
* _The Crucible_ is driven by its _characters_. Some specific characters you
  should look out for:
  * Foil -- sets off the main character by comparison (Ex. Elizabeth Proctor
    is a foil to Abigail Williams.)
  * Catalyst -- a character whose words or actions make an event happen (Ex.
    Abigail Williams acts as a catalyst for the witch hunt.)
  * Yardstick -- a character who allows the reader to measure change in a
    primary character (Ex. Elizabeth Proctor is a yardstick for John
    Proctor. She doesn't really change, so she shows John's change more
    strongly.)
