# 3.2.5 Practice: Opinion Paper

## Assignment

Write an essay in which you express who you think is to blame for the tragic
events in _The Crucible_. Use what you know about character types and functions
to write an analysis of the character you believe is to blame.

### Requirements

* Express your opinion about who is to blame for the tragic events in the play.
* Use what you know about character types and functions to write an analysis of
  the character you believe is to blame.
* Your answer should include an introduction with a thesis statement, a body
  paragraph, and a concluding paragraph.

### Tips

* Think about the character you've chosen and try to write down everything you
  know about him or her.
* Collect plenty of information about the character you chose, including direct
  quotes from the text.

## Organizer

### Step 1

**Think about the play and review your notes, if necessary. Who do you think
caused the play's tragic events?**

* I think Abigail ignited the flame that led to the tragic events in _The
  Crucible_. 

### Step 2

**Now that you've picked a character to blame, brainstorm some ideas about the
kind of character he or she is.**

* Vindictive when crossed.
* Selfish.
* Manipulative.
* Good liar.
* Relatively one-dimensional.
  * However, she watched both of her parents murdered when she was young, so
    that may have had an impact on her brutal and seemingly inhuman behavior.
  * Low position in society.
    * Orphan
    * Unmarried teenager
    * Woman

### Step 3

**What did the character say or do that contributed to the events of the
play?**

* Had affair with John Proctor.
* Accused Elizabeth of being a witch.
* Started witch hysteria. 

## Parts of Essay

### Thesis Statement

**Write your thesis statement here, as well as some ideas for your introductory
paragraph. Your thesis statement should identify the character you think is
responsible for the play's tragic events.**

Abigail Williams, through her manipulative and vindictive actions, ignites
the flame that leads to the Salem Witch Trials.

### Body Topic Sentence

**Write the topic sentence for your body paragraph here. (Why do you think the
character is important?)**

Abigail Williams's lust for power leads her to start the Salem Witch Trials.

### Supporting Evidence

**Write down at least two pieces of evidence that support your opinion. (How
did the character's role or actions contribute to the events of the play?**

* Abigail holds a relatively low position in society. Igniting the hysteria of
  the Salem Witch Trials gave her much wanted power.
* Her affair with John caused her to lust for revenge on Elizabeth Proctor.
* Abigail channels the hysteria for her gain.

### Conclusion

**Restate your thesis and summarize your main points.**

Because of her innate need for revenge, Abigail undermines those around her and
stops at nothing to get what she wants. Undermining those around her makes her
feel empowered, a feeling foreign to her because of her relatively low position
in society. In many ways, her affair with John, and the subsequent lust for
revenge on Elizabeth, was a form of empowerment. Through Abigail's ability to
manipulate others, she channels the hysteria for her own personal gain.

## All Together

Abigail Williams, through her manipulative and vindictive actions, ignites
the flame that leads to the Salem Witch Trials.

Abigail's lust for power leads her to start the Salem Witch Trials.
Abigail holds a relatively low position in society. Igniting the hysteria of
the Salem Witch Trials gave her much wanted power. Her affair with John caused
her to lust for revenge on Elizabeth Proctor. Abigail channels the hysteria for
her gain.

Because of her innate need for revenge, Abigail undermines those around her and
stops at nothing to get what she wants. Undermining those around her makes her
feel empowered, a feeling foreign to her because of her relatively low position
in society. In many ways, her affair with John, and the subsequent lust for
revenge on Elizabeth, was a form of empowerment. Through Abigail's ability to
manipulate others, she channels the hysteria for her own personal gain.
