# 3.3.1 Journal: Analyze the Reading

## Read and Paraphrase

### Passage

**PROCTOR**, with solemn warning. You will not judge me more, Elizabeth. I have
good reason to think before I charge fraud on Abigail, and I will think on it.
Let you look to your own improvement before you go to judge your husband
anymore. I have forgot Abigail, and —

**ELIZABETH**. And I.

**PROCTOR**. Spare me! You forget nothin' and forgive nothin'. Learn charity,
woman. I have gone tiptoe in this house all seven month since she is gone. I
have not moved from there to there without I think to please you, and still an
everlasting funeral marches round your heart. I cannot speak but I am doubted,
every moment judged for lies, as though I come into a court when I come into
this house!

**ELIZABETH**. John, you are not open with me. You saw her with a crowd, you
said.  Now you —

**PROCTOR**. I'll plead my honesty no more, Elizabeth.

**ELIZABETH**, now she would justify herself. John, I am only —

**PROCTOR**. No more! I should have roared you down when first you told me your
suspicion. But I wilted, and, like a Christian, I confessed. Confessed! Some
dream I had must have mistaken you for God that day. But you're not, you're
not, and let you remember it! Let you look sometimes for the goodness in me,
and judge me not.

### Paraphrase

**PROCTOR**, with little warning. You won't judge me anymore, Elizabeth. I must
think before calling Abigail a liar. Before judging me, maybe you should take
a look at yourself. I no longer care for Abigail.

**ELIZABETH**. I don't care about your relationship with her either.

**PROCTOR**. Wow, really? You still care about my previous relationship with
her. Think about me! I've done everything I can to please you, and I still
mean nothing to you. You constantly judge me, as if this is a court rather than
a house.

**ELIZABETH**. John, you're not open to me. 

**PROCTOR**. I'm done trying.

**ELIZABETH**. If only she'd justify herself. I'm only...

**PROCTOR**. I'm done! I should have denied it when you first brought it up,
instead of being an honest Christian man. I confessed! Do you have any idea
how much it took from me to be honest with you? I thought you'd understand, but
you don't. Think about the good in me, instead of judging me.

## Mark the Text

Now is a chance for you to mark text to show how a reading sample uses the
concepts you learned about in this unit.

Italicize the parts of the text below that show the current relationship
between John Proctor and his wife, Elizabeth.

### The Text

**PROCTOR**, with solemn warning. _You will not judge me more, Elizabeth._ I
have good reason to think before I charge fraud on Abigail, and I will think on
it.  _Let you look to your own improvement before you go to judge your husband
anymore._ I have forgot Abigail, and —

**ELIZABETH**. And I.

**PROCTOR**. Spare me! _You forget nothin' and forgive nothin'. Learn charity,
woman. I have gone tiptoe in this house all seven month since she is gone. I
have not moved from there to there without I think to please you, and still an
everlasting funeral marches round your heart. I cannot speak but I am doubted,
every moment judged for lies, as though I come into a court when I come into
this house!_

**ELIZABETH**. John, _you are not open with me. You saw her with a crowd, you
said._ Now you —

**PROCTOR**. _I'll plead my honesty no more, Elizabeth._

**ELIZABETH**, now she would justify herself. John, I am only —

**PROCTOR**. No more! _I should have roared you down when first you told me
your suspicion._ But I wilted, and, like a Christian, I confessed. Confessed!
Some dream _I had must have mistaken you for God that day. But you're not,
you're not, and let you remember it! Let you look sometimes for the goodness in
me, and judge me not._

## Write the Response

Journal Question: How does the passage show the relationship between Proctor
and his wife?

Using your paraphrase and notes of the text, write a 4 to 10 sentence journal
entry. Use the complete topic sentence below or write your own. Then provide
two supporting examples and a closing sentence that connects to the topic
sentence.

Topic Sentence: This passage clearly shows the strained relationship between
John and Elizabeth Proctor.

### Response

This passage clearly shows the strained relationship between John and Elizabeth
Proctor. John's affair with Abigail caused Elizabeth to lose trust in John.
Since then, he's been working tirelessly to regain her trust, to no avail. In
this passage, he lets out his frustration with her. He's tired of getting no
recognition for all of the work he's done. He's tired of constantly being
judged by her. He's tired of his house becoming a court. Through this outburst
of frustration, John both strengthens and weakens his relationship with
Elizabeth.
