# 4.2.6 Practice: Exploring Debate: Opening Statements

## Requirements

* Write speeches for both the affirmative and negative sides of a topic of a
  topic of your choice.
* Express the affirmative (or "for") side of the debate in one speech and the
  negative (or "against") side in the other speech.
* Each speech should be two paragraphs long.
* Your assignment should be written in 12-point font with standard margins.

## Tips

* Use the Toulmin model of debate when writing both speeches.

## Brainstorm Organizer

### Step 1

**What is your topic? Write down a few ideas then choose one. Remember: For
this assignment, you need to write both the "for" and "against" sides of the
topic, so choose a topic that you feel you know well enough.**

* NSA surveillance
* Net neutrality
* **Whistleblowers vs traitors**

### Step 2

**Brainstorm some ideas for the positive side of the topic and write them down
here. When you're finished, pick your three best ideas. These will be your
"contentions."**

* Whisteblowers keep our government honest

### Step 3

**Think of some evidence that will support your contentions. Evidence can be
facts, ideas, explanations, or examples.**

### Step 4

**Now brainstorm some ideas for the negative side of the topic and write them
down here. When you're finished, pick your three best ideas. These will be your
"contentions."**

### Step 5

**Provide some evidence that will support your contentions. Evidence can be
facts, ideas, explanations, or examples.**

## Thought Organizer

### Affirmative Introduction

**Write down an introductory paragraph for the affirmative side here. Be sure
to include a thesis statement.**

### Proof

**In complete sentences, write three contentions that directly support your
thesis statement above. Support each contention with two pieces of evidence.**

### Conclusion

**Write a concluding paragraph for the affirmative side here. Restate your
opinion and summarize your main points.**

### Negative Introduction

**Now write an introductory paragraph for the negative side in this box. Be
sure to include a thesis statement.**

### Proof

**In complete sentences, write three contentions that directly support the
thesis statement above. Support each contention with two pieces of evidence.**

### Conclusion

**Finally, write a concluding paragraph for the negative side here. Be sure to
restate your opinion and summarize your main points.**

## Final Paper
