6.3.1 Journal: Analyze the Reading
==================================

Read and Paraphrase
-------------------

### Read

Read the text below:

*From: The Joy Luck Club by Amy Tan*

The week before [my mother] died, she called me, full of pride, full of
life: "Auntie Lin cooked red bean soup for Joy Luck. I'm going to cook
black sesame-seed soup." "Don't show off," I said. "It's not show off."
She said the two soups were almost the same, chabudwo. Or maybe she said
butong, not the same thing at all. It was one of those Chinese
expressions that means the better half of mixed intentions. I can never
remember things I didn't understand in the first place.

### Paraphrase

The week before my mom died, she proudly called me saying she was going
to cook black sesame-seed soup because Auntie Lin cooked red bean soup
for Joy Luck. She then said that she meant the best intentions.

Mark the Text
-------------

Now is a chance for you to mark the text to show how a reading sample
uses the concepts you learned about in this unit. Dialogue is key to
understanding relationships between characters. As you read this
passage, mark some examples of indirect characterization that help you
understand the narrator and her mother better.

*From: The Joy Luck Club by Amy Tan*

The week before [my mother] died, she called me, full of pride, full of
life: "Auntie Lin cooked red bean soup for Joy Luck. *I'm going to cook
black sesame-seed soup.*" "Don't show off," I said. *"It's not show
off." She said the two soups were almost the same,) chabudwo.* Or maybe
she said butong, not the same thing at all. It was one of those Chinese
expressions that means the better half of mixed intentions. I can never
remember things I didn't understand in the first place.

Write the Response
------------------

Journal Question: How does Amy Tan use dialogue to show the tense
relationship between the narrator and her mother?

Using your paraphrase and notes of the text, write a 4- to 10-sentence
journal entry. Use the complete topic sentence below or write your own.
Then provide two supporting examples and a closing sentence to back up
the topic sentence.

Topic Sentence: Tan uses dialogue to show the tense relationship between
the narrator and her mother..

Example \#1:

Jing-mei's mother is full of pride, something that she is clearly not
proud of. By telling her to not show off, she is increasing the tension
in their relationship.

Example \#2:

Additionally, Jing-mei doesn't understand all of her mother's Chinese
expressions, creating a communication barrier that clearly doesn't
improve their relationship.

Closing sentence:

Through dialogue, Tan portrays a strained relationship between Jing-mei
and her mother.
