# 7.a1.3 Final Exam: Critical Reading and Effective Writing Semester 1

**Answer each of the five questions below. Your answers should be one paragraph
in length, and you should use complete sentences and appropriate tone. Each
question is worth 20 points.**

1. In your opinion, what makes a piece of literature last for a long time? Why
   do people choose to read classics over other forms of writing that easily
   entertain? Write a topic paragraph to discuss this idea. Remember to include
   details and comments about how literature becomes classic. Include specific
   ideas about why people read classics and finish with a concluding thought
   about the importance of reading these stories.
  * A classic is an exemplary piece of literature - a work so pivotal, that it
    completely revolutionizes an idea or concept. For a piece of literature to
    truly make an outstanding impact, it must resonate with the reader's
    emotions on an virtually unprecedented level. Knowledge is contagious. When
    a work influences the reader, the reader is compelled to spread the
    work, thus expanding its outreach. A wonderful example of this is _How to
    Win Friends and Influence People_, by Dale Carnegie. First published in
    1936, _How to Win Friends and Influence People_ has stayed relevant through
    World War II, the Space Race, and the rise of the Information Age. The
    intellectual, historical, and cultural value that classics provide leads to
    new generations of readers finding immense value in them. By decided to not
    read classics, a reader misses out on generations of knowledge.
2. There are four genres found throughout Western literature — tragedy,
   romance, comedy, and satire/irony. Write a definition for each of the
   literary genres. Include key elements of each type in your definition.
  * Tragedy - a dramatic genre that features a main character that is drawn to
    ruin as consequence of a tragic flaw.
  * Romance - follows a hero whom embarks on a journey.
  * Comedy - features a comic hero that wins the audience's support, generally
    average or below average in terms of moral character.
3. There are many rules and procedures to follow during any modern legal trial.
   In a criminal trial, there are two teams of lawyers: the prosecution (which
   represents the state) and the defense (which represents the person or people
   accused of the crime). The prosecution and defense argue to convince a jury
   to judge the accused as guilty or innocent, respectively. The prosecution
   begins the trial with an opening argument in which a lawyer tells the court
   its side of the story. The other side of the story is then presented by the
   defense in his or her opening argument, again without interruptions. What
   are the benefits of requiring a unanimous jury vote to convict a defendant?
   Write a topic paragraph to discuss this idea. Remember to include details
   and comments about how argumentation works in the courtroom. Include
   specific ideas about how lawyers try to convince the jury and finish with a
   concluding thought about the importance of rhetoric in the courtroom.
  * Requiring a unanimous jury vote requires a group of many people from many
    different backgrounds to agree on a single thing - whether a defendant is
    guilty. Bias is an inherent part of rhetoric and is an important part of an
    attorney's argument for their client. Our court system was created under
    the idea that all citizens are innocent until proven guilty. A diverse jury
    helps weed through the bias in both side's dispositions. Without a
    unanimous jury verdict, it is impossible to be absolutely certain whether a
    defendant is guilty. Rhetoric shapes arguments. Effective attorneys take
    advantage of strong rhetoric to shape their dispositions in the hope of
    winning their client's case.
4. How is poetry like music? What does a poet do to create a specific
   impression on a reader? Write a topic paragraph to discuss this idea.
   Remember to include details and comments about how poetry is like music.
   Include specific ideas about what poets do to help the reader create meaning
   and finish with a concluding thought about the importance of reading poetry.
  * Poetry is the art of conveying feelings and ideas through distinctive style
    and rhythm. Similarly, music is the art of conveying emotions through
    sound. Both poetry and music convey feelings and emotions through abstract
    mediums. Poets take advantage of distinct style and rhythm to create a
    lasting and specific impression on a reader. The emotions that poetry
    convey are timeless throughout the ages. Reading poetry gives the reader
    unique insight into ancient and present times, bringing each and every
    human just a little bit closer.
5. Authors often use point of view to communicate a theme, illustrate tension
   between characters, or create other impressions for readers. Think back over
   the excerpt you read from The Joy Luck Club. How did the shift in point of
   view affect your reading? What does the author accomplish by employing this
   shift?
  * Point of view is arguable the most defining component of novels. It not
    only shapes opinions, but also outlooks and personal morals. _By shifting
    point of view between narrators, Tan illustrates tension between mother and
    daughter and wonderfully manifests complex relationships between
    characters._ The Chinese mothers in _Joy Luck Club_ strive to educate their
    American-born daughters of their heritage. Throughout the novel, there is a
    constant conflict between the daughters' American ideals and their Chinese
    heritage. Tan uses perspective to convey the daughters' struggle for
    balance. Perspective defines themes conveyed through stories.
