# 3.5.6 Practice: Civilizations of East Asia

Read the following poems by Japanese poet Basho. Then, answer the questions
below. Note: In their Japanese form, these poems fall into the traditional
haiku structure of five syllables in the first line, seven syllables in the
second line, and five syllables in the third. But when the poems are translated
into English, their form sometimes changes.

    Within plum orchard,
    Sturdy oak takes no notice
    Of flowering blooms.
    The moon glows the same:
    It is the drifting cloud forms
    Make it seem to change.
    Yellow rose petals
    Drop one-by-one in silence:
    Roar of waterfall.
    An old pond
    A frog jumps in–
    The sound of water.
    In the falling snow
    A laughing boy holds out his palm
    Until they are white

1. How is Japanese culture connected to the shortness of these poems? (2
   points)
  * The shortness of haiku exemplifies the conservatism and emphasis on
    simplicity and tradition in Japanese culture.
2. How would you compare haiku with other kinds of poetry you've read? (3
   points)
  * The haiku's unique emphasis on simplicity and order creates a unique rhythm
    unique to haiku.
3. Why do you think haiku are often based on nature? (3 points)
  * I think haiku are often based on nature because of the traditional emphasis
    on the importance of nature in Japanese society.
4. How can different seasons be represented in haiku? (2 points)
  * Different seasons are represented by saijiki in haiku.
5. What can we learn about Japanese culture by studying haiku? Explain your
   answer in a brief paragraph below. (10 points)
  * Haiku epitomizes Japanese culture. Its unique emphasis on simplicity and
    consistent rhythm exemplifies the importance of order and tradition in
    Japanese culture. Additionally, haiku traditionally include elements from
    nature, showing the importance of the relationship between the human
    condition and nature in Japanese culture. Finally, haiku shows the emphasis
    on ritual by the Japanese by often focusing on issues regarding praying
    techniques, seasons, and the gods.
