# 1.2.8 Discuss: Think It Through, Talk It Out

## Assignment

Read the statement below then decide whether you agree or disagree with it.
Be prepared to support your opinion with details from the reading. Here's
your discussion prompt:

> Trying to explain something as complicated as jumping a car battery in a
> technical document is pointless. Some topics can only be understood by
> gaining firsthand experience.

What do you think? Write a paragraph supporting your opinion and then write
a reply paragraph. If you're working with others, your reply paragraph
should respond to the ideas of another student. If you're working alone,
your reply paragraph should support the opposite point of view from your
own.

## Response

Firsthand experience reinforces prior knowledge. In this case, actually
jumping a car battery reinforces what's covered in the technical document,
not replacing the technical document entirely. It's important to have prior
knowledge to draw from when gaining firsthand experience. For example, the text
reads, "Unless you want to see sparks and possibly get a nasty shock (not
nearly as fun as it may sound), make sure both cars are turned off." If we were
didn't have prior knowledge, our firsthand experience may result in drastically
painful results.

Despite your contention having substance, I believe that prior knowledge before
application is not beneficial in all situations. Sometimes you just need to try
things and make mistakes to learn. For example, I can spend hours reading how
to play soccer, but I'll never actually learn without going outside and doing
it.
