# 2.1.13 Practice: Write About It: The Compare-and-Contrast Essay

## Assignment

By now, you should have written a compare-and-contrast essay that focuses on
differences (or similarities) in language use between Andrew Jackson's message
to Congress and Michael Rutledge's account of his great-great-grandfather. You
should have used specific examples from each text as evidence to support your
ideas. In addition, you should have included several body paragraphs, each
focusing on a different point of comparison.

## Response

In a world dominated by the internet, language is becoming an increasingly
large part of our everyday lives. Tone and diction literally changes lives, for
better or worse. In Andrew Jackson's message to congress he speaks lowly of
the indigenous people calling them "savages" and looking down upon their "rude
institutions". He uses very long sentences and abstract euphemisms to appear
educated and with authority. In _Samuel's Memory_, by Michael Rutledge, the
author recalls their great-grandfather's memories of the Trail of Tears using
very simple and personal diction. Both Jackson and Rutledge take advantage of
diction to make their writing more engaging and effective.

It isn't uncommon to talk down upon enemies. Unlike Rutledge, Jackson uses
derogatory language to emphasize his arguments. In Jackson's message to
congress, he writes, "It will place a dense and civilized population in large
tracts of country now occupied by a few savage hunters." Jackson refers to the
natives as "savage hunters" to justify removing them from their homes for the
more "civilized" white settlers. Later, he writes that forcing them to leave
their homes will, "enable them to pursue happiness in their own way and under
their own rude institutions; will retard the progress of decay, which is
lessening their numbers, and perhaps cause them gradually, under the protection
of the Government and through the influence of good counsels, to cast off their
savage habits and become an interesting, civilized, and Christian community."
Writing the indigenous traditions and beliefs off as "rude institutions" is
both racist and inconsiderate. However, Jackson effectively uses this to back
his beliefs. Jackson effectively backs his arguments by writing his enemies off
as lesser them his target audience.

Unlike Jackson, Rutledge uses very raw and simple sentences to make his
great-grandfather's story both relatable and memorable. Rutledge writes, "My
mother, my aunts and uncles take me aside one day. 'Your father died last
night,' they tell me. My mother and my father's clan members are crying, but I
do not understand what this means. I saw him yesterday. He was sick, but still
alive. It doesn't seem real. Nothing seems real. I don't know what any of this
means. It seems like yesterday, I was playing with my friends". Instead of
using derogatory language and writing directly about the soldier escorts ,
Rutledge write about the experience itself using a very personal tone. He uses
this personal tone to effectively communicate his intent with the story. Later
he writes, "My clan will take care of me, but I will be forever denied her
warmth, the soft fingers in my hair, her gentle breath as we slept. I am alone.
I want to cry. I want to scream in rage. I can do nothing". Again Rutledge uses
very raw language to resonate with the reader on a very emotional level.
Instead of just telling the reader about the pain, he is able to make the
reader feel it. Using raw language, Rutledge effectively conveys his intent
through his writing.

Despite their differences, both Jackson and Rutledge take a very radical
approach to language and stick to it. Jackson directly uses derogatory language
when referring to his enemies and uses complex language throughout his writing.
On the other hand, Rutledge keeps his sentences short, simple, and raw. While
Jackson cares about being superior, Rutledge cares about getting an emotional
response from the reader. If Jackson and Rutledge didn't both effectively use
language, both Jackson's letter to congress and _Samuel's Memory_ wouldn't be
regarded to as high of a standard today. Jackson's push for indigenous removal
would likely have never gone through and the Trail of Tears would never have
happened. _Samuel's Memory_ would have never been written and countless of
lives would have been saved. Language plays a huge part of our everyday lives
and literally changes history.

As more and more language is processed every day, it becomes a progressively
larger part of what it means to be human. Through derogatory language and
complex language, Jackson makes the reader look down upon his enemies with
contempt. On the other hand, Rutledge's writing appeals to the reader on a very
emotional level, causing them to truly feel his messages. In spite of their
differences, both Jackson and Rutledge take advantage of tone and diction to
convey their message. As Jackson and Rutledge have shown, effectively using
language is an invaluable skill and has countless real-world applications.
