# 3.2.8 Discuss: Think It Through, Talk It Out

## Assignment

Read the statement below then decide whether you agree or disagree with it. Be
prepared to support your opinion with details from the speeches. Here's your
discussion prompt:

> Roosevelt's speech is less effective than Sotomayor's speech because Franklin
> Delano Roosevelt does not emphasize himself or his experiences.

What do you think? Write a paragraph supporting your opinion and then write a
reply paragraph. If you're working with others, your reply paragraph should
respond to the ideas of another student. If you're working alone, your reply
paragraph should support the opposite point of view from your own.

## Response

I disagree with the provided assertion. Roosevelt already established his
credibility by being the president of the United States. In his state of the
union address he speaks for the nation as a whole, not simply himself.
Roosevelt begins his address with, "I address you, the Members of the
Seventy-seventh Congress, at a moment unprecedented in the history of the
Union. I use the word 'unprecedented,' because at no previous time has American
security been as seriously threatened from without as it is today." How I read
it, if he discussed his own accomplishments before the state of the nation, he
would be doing a disservice to the American people.

I disagree with your assertions. Roosevelt may be the president of the United
States, but it is still important for him to establish his credibility in the
specific areas of his address. If he was discussing European relations, I, as
an informed American citizen, would like to know about his specific experience
with European relations and how they influenced his decisions for the address.
Without knowing this information, I would be succumbing myself to the
government and doing a disservice to the rest of the informed American people.
