# 4.2.8 Discuss: Think It Through, Talk It Out

## Assignment

Read the statement below and then decide whether you agree or disagree with
it. Be prepared to support your opinion with details from the essay. Here's
your discussion prompt:

> The author addresses the counterclaims politely and in the most effective
> way possible.

What do you think? Write a paragraph supporting your opinion and then write
a reply paragraph. If you're working with others, your reply paragraph
should respond to the ideas of another student. If you're working alone,
your reply paragraph should support the opposite point of view from your
own.

## Response

I disagree with the provided discussion prompt. I believe that the author
addresses the counterclaims dismissively and unprofessionally. I quote,
"While meat eaters coexist with garden-variety vegetarians, albeit in an
uneasy peace, they find vegans to be unbearable, a truly horrific and
immoral lot, feeding on a bland diet of plants and practicing a philosophy
that seems... well, kind of crazy." When the author writes, "they find
vegans to be unbearable, a truly horrific and immoral lot, feeding on a
bland diet of plants and practicing a philosophy that seems... well, kind of
crazy.", they portray the argument against vegans as uncivilized and unruly,
when, in reality, it is nearly the opposite.

I agree with the provided discussion prompt. The author portrays opponents of
vegans accurately. To argue against another's way of life is, in many ways,
discrimination. As history has shown, those who discriminate are looked back on
as uncivilized and unruly. Exposing that upfront only adds to the author's
argument.
