# 4.3.6 Discuss: Think It Through Talk It Out

## Peer Evaluation Sheet

Exchange rough drafts with a classmate and evaluate your peer's paper. Read the
entire essay and mark any obvious mistakes, such as:

* Typos (misspellings and inconsistent spaces, punctuation, formatting, etc.)
* Misuse of quotes (less than 10 percent of the paper should be made up of
  quotes)
* Sentences that are difficult for you to understand, for any reason

When you're done, give your overall impression of the paper by answering the
following questions. Make sure you explain your opinion in each answer.

1. What is the essay's biggest strength? What does your peer do well in the
   essay? (2-3 sentences)
  * You do a good job of staying on topic and maintaining a consistent point.
    You clearly did your research.
2. What does your peer most need to work on in the essay? What does the essay
   lack, or what might the essay do better? (2-3 sentences)
  * You use a lot of informal tone, which you might want to change. Using
    informal tone detracts from your overall point, but it's an easy fix!
3. What is the essay's claim, and what are all the supporting reasons for the
   claim? If you have trouble answering this question, explain why it isn't
   clear in the essay.
  * Claim: There should be better awareness of college alternatives.
  * Reasons:
    * Cost & financial burden
    * More then one route to success, which should be catered to the
      individual.
4. What counterclaim does the essay address? How does your peer address the
   counterclaim? If you have trouble answering this question, explain why it
   isn't clear in the essay.
  * The peer addresses the counterclaim of breaking students into two distinct
    education tracks. They discuss the pitfalls and implications of this issue,
    but how it may be less of an issue that originally magined.
5. What is at least one example of evidence that your peer uses to back up one
   of his or her points? Is there a section in the essay that doesn't seem to
   have enough evidence, and where is it?
  * The peer cites the New Way Educators website. Evidence is sprinkled
    throughout the essay, but it would have been nice if there was more
    evidence overall.
